Add release notes for 11.36 (#513)
mondoohq/docs: releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out.md

---
slug: mondoo-11.36-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.36 is out!

> description: Announcing the 11.36 release of Mondoo with ad hoc risk prioritization with Workspaces!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Announcing the 11.36 release of Mondoo featuring  ad hoc risk prioritization with workspaces!
```

> description: Announcing the 11.36 release of Mondoo featuring  ad hoc risk prioritization with workspaces!

Author: ```suggestion
description: Announcing the 11.36 release of Mondoo featuring ad hoc risk prioritization with workspaces!
```

authors: [tim]
image: /img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/workspaces_filter.png
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

> ## 🥳 Mondoo 11.36 is out! This release includes ad hoc risk prioritization with Workspaces!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 🥳 Mondoo 11.36 is out! This release includes ad hoc risk prioritization with workspaces!
```

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

### Zero in on exactly the assets you need with workspaces

Do you find yourself repeatedly searching for the same groups of assets? Do you wish you could see a subgroup of assets in your space to compare them or measure progress on a certain project? Or maybe some assets just get in the way of what you want to focus on right now? What you need are workspaces!

![Lists of workspaces](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/workspaces_list.png)

> Workspaces are dynamic groups of assets in a space that you want to view and assess together. Unlike spaces; assets are grouped based on queries and best of all an asset can be in as many workspaces as you want. Create a workspace that shows only assets with critical findings, another workspace that has all your Windows 2016 systems that still need to be upgraded, and another that includes all the systems owned by the Frontend team... whatever meets your specific business needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workspaces are dynamic groups of assets in a space that you want to view and assess together. Unlike spaces, assets in a workspace are included based on queries. Best of all, an asset can be in as many workspaces as you want. Create a workspace that shows only assets with critical findings, another workspace that has all your Windows 2016 systems that still need to be upgraded, and another that includes all the systems owned by the Front end team... whatever meets your specific business needs.
```

**How might you use workspaces to solve problems?**

> Like many companies, Lunalectric has thousands of assets, but recently their CISO has been increasingly focused on their supply chain. To ensure GitHub and GitLab source code and CI/CD configuration meet best practices, let's create a workspace just for these SCM assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like many companies, Lunalectric has thousands of assets, but recently their CISO has been increasingly focused on their supply chain. To ensure GitHub and GitLab source code and CI/CD configuration meet best practices, they create a workspace just for these SCM assets.
```

![Creating a workspaces filter](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/workspaces_filter.png)

> We'll create a single asset selection that matches on the different asset platforms for GitHub and GitLab. Asset selections can match on asset name, kind, platform, platform version, and risk rating with more options coming soon. You can add additional conditions to your selection and build as many selections as you want allow you to create complex queries like Windows systems with a critical risk rating that aren't Windows 2022 and have the word "luna" in the asset name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We create a single asset selection that includes the GitHub and GitLab platforms. Asset selections can match on asset name, kind, platform, platform version, and risk rating with more options coming soon. We can even add as many additional conditions to the selection as we want to create complex queries like _Windows systems with a critical risk rating that aren't Windows 2022 and have the word "luna" in the asset name_.
```

> Once our workspace is created we can find it from the workspaces in the left nav bar or from a new workspaces top navigation drop down menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once our workspace is created, we can find it by selecting Workspaces in the left navigation or from a new workspaces top navigation drop down menu.
```

![Workspaces in the top navigation](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/nav_bar.png)

> Once in our new SCM Assets workspace, things will feel similar to the existing Lunalectric spaces, but focused on understanding risks and exploring assets. Our workspaces dashboard is shows just our GitLab and GitHub assets including the top misconfigurations we should start tackling. We can dive into policies, checks, CVES, or advisories to see more details but everything will stay tightly focused on the problem at hand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once in our new SCM Assets workspace, the layout feels similar to the existing Lunalectric spaces, only more focused on understanding risks and exploring assets. Our workspaces dashboard shows just our GitLab and GitHub assets, including the top misconfigurations we should start tackling. We can dive into policies, checks, CVES, or advisories to see more details... all the while remaining tightly focused on the task at hand.
```

> Before diving deeper in the console, our dashboard's inventory overview is telling quite the story. GitLab assets are all passing checks, but GitHub assets on the other hand are all high risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even without diving deeper, the workspace dashboard's inventory overview is telling quite a story. GitLab assets are all passing checks, but GitHub assets, on the other hand, are all high risk.
```

![GitHub assets](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/github_assets.png)

> Armed with this quick insight, we have the information we need to let our CISO know the current SCM risk and to develop a remediation plan to secure these critical assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Armed with this quick insight, we have the information we need to let our CISO know about the current SCM risk and develop a remediation plan to secure these critical assets.
```

> To learn how you can use workspaces to better organize assets and expose risks see our [Plan Your Mondoo Organization](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/start/organize/overview/) and [Workspaces](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/start/organize/workspaces/) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how you can use workspaces to better organize assets and expose risks, read [Plan Your Mondoo Organization](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/start/organize/overview/) and [Workspaces](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/start/organize/workspaces/) in the Mondoo documentation.
```

### Quick access to reports

> Quickly access compliance reports from the Reporting page in the navigation menu. Looking for more reports? Stay tuned for more updates in upcoming releases and if you're looking for something in particular let us know at [product@mondoo.com](mailto:product@mondoo.com)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quickly access compliance reports from the Reporting page in the navigation menu. Looking for more reports? Stay tuned for more updates in upcoming releases. If you're looking for something in particular, let us know at [product@mondoo.com](mailto:product@mondoo.com)!
```

![Quick access to reports](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/reporting.png)

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

### Optionally follow HTTP -> HTTPS redirects

> You now have additional control over how HTTP hosts are scanned in the `host` provider. By default cnquery/cnspec will no longer follow redirects from HTTP to HTTPS endpoints so you can inspect your HTTP configurations when specified. If you'd prefer to follow any redirects use the new `--follow-redirects` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now have additional control over how Mondoo scans HTTP hosts in the `host` provider. By default cnquery/cnspec no longer follows redirects from HTTP to HTTPS endpoints so you can inspect your HTTP configurations when specified. If you prefer to follow redirects, use the new `--follow-redirects` flag.
```

> Without the redirect you'll be able to inspect the original page and headers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without the redirect you can inspect the original page and headers:
```

```shell
$ cnquery shell host http://mondoo.com

cnquery> http.get
http.get: http.get url=url id = http://mondoo.com statusCode=301
cnquery> http.get.body
http.get.body: ""
```

> With redirects specified you can follow all redirects to the final page users would see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With redirects specified, you can follow all redirects to the final page users would see:
```

```shell
$ cnquery shell host --follow-redirects http://mondoo.com

cnquery> http.get
http.get: http.get url=url id = http://mondoo.com statusCode=200
cnquery> http.get.body
http.get.body: "<!DOCTYPE html><!-- Last Published: Fri Jan 10 2025 00:09:49 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time) --><html..."
```

### Resource updates

#### azure.subscriptions.defenderForContainers

- Expose `Extensions` values

#### azure.subscription.policy.assignment

- New `parameters` field

#### fstab

> - Update `options` field to be an array of options instead of a single string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update `options` field to an array of options instead of a single string
```

#### k8s.node

- New `kubeletPort` field
- New `nodeInfo` field
- New `created` field

#### microsoft.applications

> - Fetch all applications in large installations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fetch all applications in large installations
```

> ### Improved CIS Benchmarks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Improved CIS benchmarks
```

> Sometimes the best changes are behind the scenes. This week we shipped all new internal tooling to generate CIS benchmark policies in Mondoo Platform. Not only will these changes allow us to bring you the latest and greatest policies more quickly in the future, they also allowed us to make a huge number of small improvements to existing policies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes the best changes are behind the scenes. This week we shipped all-new internal tooling to generate CIS benchmark policies in Mondoo Platform. These changes not let us to bring you the latest and greatest policies more quickly in the future&mdash;they also enabled us to make a huge number of small improvements to existing policies:
```

Author: I think there's a missing word between "not" and "let"

- New checks that were previously marked as requiring manual user validation
- More clear and concise descriptions for each policy

> - Expanded check descriptions including rational behind the security concerns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Expanded check descriptions, including rationale behind the security concerns
```

Reviewer: Ha ha you did it 😜

- New audit and remediation steps in many Linux distribution policies
- Simplified MQL queries to improve readability
- Additional platform version tags to improve searching for policies

> - Improve policy search results when searching for platform versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved policy search results when searching for platform versions
```
Because all the other bullets are things.

## 🐛 BUG FIXES AND UPDATES

- Display CVEs for Fedora 41 assets.
- Fix a failure querying Microsoft 365 applications.
- Correct the remediation steps in the BSI 'Ensure SSH Idle Timeout Interval is configured' check.
- Add EOL dates for FreeBSD 14.2 and Alpine Linux 3.21.
- Correct the EOL date for FreeBSD 14.1.
- Update the Amazon Linux 2 EOL date, which has been extended to

> - Support EBS volume scanning of instances with LVM partitions.

Reviewer: Is this one bullet item? Or is line 125 just missing something?

Author: 125 is missing a date

- Improve remediation step formatting in Mondoo VMware policies.
- Open check remediation links in a new window or tab.
- Fix an `unknown-score-type` error when comparing semver data in checks.
- Fix display of GitHub provider help.
- Don't reinstall some providers on each scan.
- Fix errors using the Cloudflare provider.
- Show the link to discovered assets on each integration page.
- Add detection of the upcoming M4 MacBook Air/Pro models to asset overview information.

> - Add form validation to the MS Defender integration to ensure UIDs are correctly formatted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add form validation to the Microsoft Defender for Cloud integration to ensure UIDs are correctly formatted.
```

- Display platform icon for Nmap assets in affected asset tables.
- Update Windows checks for the `RestrictSendingNTLMTraffic` registry entry to accept both Audit All and Deny All configurations.
- Add a missing permission to the automated CLI Azure setup.

> - Show the platform in all cnspec scan results. Thanks for suggesting this [@DrackThor](https://github.com/DrackThor)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Show the platform in all cnspec scan results. Thanks for suggesting this [@DrackThor](https://github.com/DrackThor)!
```

---
slug: mondoo-11.36-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.36 is out!
description: Announcing the 11.36 release of Mondoo featuring ad hoc risk prioritization with workspaces!
authors: [tim]
image: /img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/workspaces_filter.png
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

## 🥳 Mondoo 11.36 is out! This release includes ad hoc risk prioritization with workspaces!

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

### Zero in on exactly the assets you need with workspaces

Do you find yourself repeatedly searching for the same groups of assets? Do you wish you could see a subgroup of assets in your space to compare them or measure progress on a certain project? Or maybe some assets just get in the way of what you want to focus on right now? What you need are workspaces!

![Lists of workspaces](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/workspaces_list.png)

> Workspaces are dynamic groups of assets in a space that you want to view and assess together. Unlike spaces, assets in a workspace are included based on queries. Best of all, an asset can be in as many workspaces as you want. Create a workspace that shows only assets with critical findings, another workspace that has all your Windows 2016 systems that still need to be upgraded, and another that includes all the systems owned by the Front end team... whatever meets your specific business needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workspaces are dynamic groups of assets in a space that you want to view and assess together. Unlike spaces, assets in a workspace are included based on queries. Best of all, an asset can be in as many workspaces as you want. Create a workspace that shows only assets with critical findings, another workspace that has all your Windows 2016 systems that still need to be upgraded, and another that includes all the systems owned by the front end team... whatever meets your specific business needs.
```

**How might you use workspaces to solve problems?**

Like many companies, Lunalectric has thousands of assets, but recently their CISO has been increasingly focused on their supply chain. To ensure GitHub and GitLab source code and CI/CD configuration meet best practices, let's create a workspace just for these SCM assets.

![Creating a workspaces filter](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/workspaces_filter.png)

We create a single asset selection that includes the GitHub and GitLab platforms. Asset selections can match on asset name, kind, platform, platform version, and risk rating with more options coming soon. We can even add as many additional conditions to the selection as we want to create complex queries like _Windows systems with a critical risk rating that aren't Windows 2022 and have the word "luna" in the asset name_.

> Once our workspace is created, we can find it by selecting Workspaces in the left navigation or choosing it from the new workspaces top navigation drop-down menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once our workspace is created, we can find it by selecting Workspaces in the left navigation menu or choosing it from the new workspaces top navigation drop-down menu.
```

![Workspace dashboard](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/workspace_dashboard.png)

Even without diving deeper, the workspace dashboard's inventory overview is telling quite a story. GitLab assets are all passing checks, but GitHub assets, on the other hand, are all high risk.

![GitHub assets](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/github_assets.png)

Armed with this quick insight, we have the information we need to let our CISO know about the current SCM risk and develop a remediation plan to secure these critical assets.

To learn how you can use workspaces to better organize assets and expose risks, read [Plan Your Mondoo Organization](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/start/organize/overview/) and [Workspaces](https://mondoo.com/docs/platform/start/organize/workspaces/) in the Mondoo documentation.

### Quick access to reports

> Quickly access compliance reports from the Reporting page in the navigation menu. Looking for more reports? Stay tuned for more updates in upcoming releases. If you're looking for something in particular, let us know at [product@mondoo.com](mailto:product@mondoo.com)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quickly access compliance reports by selecting Reporting in the left navigation menu. Looking for more reports? Stay tuned for more updates in upcoming releases. If you're looking for something in particular, let us know at [product@mondoo.com](mailto:product@mondoo.com)!
```

![Quick access to reports](/img/releases/2025-01-07-mondoo-11.36-is-out/reporting.png)

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

### Optionally follow HTTP -> HTTPS redirects

> You now have additional control over how Mondoo scans HTTP hosts in the `host` provider. By default cnquery/cnspec no longer follows redirects from HTTP to HTTPS endpoints so you can inspect your HTTP configurations when specified. If you prefer to follow redirects, use the new `--follow-redirects` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now have additional control over how Mondoo scans HTTP hosts in the `host` provider. By default cnquery and cnspec no longer follow redirects from HTTP to HTTPS endpoints, so you can now inspect your HTTP configurations when you choose. If you prefer to follow redirects, use the new `--follow-redirects` flag.
```
